---
layout: post
title: APIC Reserved Instance
subtitle: What is it about?
tags: [apic, deployment]
comments: true
category: apic
---

This post will provide a quick overview of what is API Connect Reserved Instance and what are the business values.

In a nutshell, API Connect Reserved Instance is an API Connect solution deployed on IBM Cloud and managed by IBM.
The different components are deployed on a shared infrastructure but the API Connect componets are not shared with others hence the word **reserved**.

## Licensing
The license is per API calls.

On the IBM Cloud you have managed for you:
- An API manager that allows to author and manager your API definition
- A developer portal with one or multiple sites.
- A datapower gateway

Any number of remote gateways can be deployed on your cloud.

## Remote Gateway
- You are entitled to deploy any number of remote gateways that would like.
- Those remote gateways are deployed on any cloud (on premise or on cloud providers) and they are attached to the API Connect manager instance running on IBM Cloud.
- The remote gateways are DataPower gateways that are managed by you.
- The API Connect topology configuration on the API Connect manager is performed by the IBM operational team.
- Once the gateway has been added to the topology you can assign them to your catalogs at your preferences.

## References
* [What is API Connect Reserved Instance](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSMNED_cloud/com.ibm.apic.overview.doc/capic_reservedinstance.html)
