---
title: APIC REST API
subtitle: How to be getting started with APIC REST API
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
tags:
  - apic
  - devops
comments: true
category: 
  - apic
---
# Using REST API with API Connect

In this topic we will show how to create the necessary credentials to call REST API against a provider organisation.

To call REST API against API Connect you need to have 
- client id
- client secret
- access token

Reference link:
[APIC 2018 REST API Reference link](https://apic-api.apiconnect.ibmcloud.com/v2018/)
[APIC v10 REST API Reference link](https://apic-api.apiconnect.ibmcloud.com/v10/)


> in this post we will use the apicmgmt variable to point to the APIC manager host.

## Get client creds  
In order to call APIC REST API you need to obtain credentials (clientId/secret) for the application that will performs the call requests.

To register an application, you need to login as admin on the manager with **admin** scope using CLI.
It should also be possible to register 

> You might choose to create a specific user to access the admin scope using the cli.
> * In members -> invite a member with role administrator
> * Use the activation link to signup and choose the manager user registry


### Login with the cli

Get the user registry that you can use (used to register the admin cli user)

```shell
./apiccli identity-providers:list --scope admin -s $apiccloud
default-idp-1
common-services
```
- apiccloud is the api **cloud** manager endpoint 
- default UR has been used here: **default-idp-1**.

Login to the admin organization
```
./apiccli login --server $apiccloud --username admincli --realm admin/default-idp-1
```

### Register an application

The registration is made by using a client configuration file in json format:
```json
{
  "name": "<yourAppName>",
  "client_id": "<yourClientId>",
  "client_secret": "<yourClientSecret>",
  "client_type": "toolkit"
}
```
> cliend_id and client_secret can be choosen and corresponds to the value that we are looking for. 
As example we are using 
- name: aceclient
- client_id: ace-client
- client_pwd: ace-client-pwd
- client_type: toolkit

Possible values for the **client_type** are
portal, gateway, toolkit, consumer_toolkit, ui, consumer_ui, ibm_cloud, designer, juhu, atm

The client_type for REST call will be **toolkit**.

Register your client using the following cli:
```
./apic registrations:create -s $apiccloud appconfig.json
```

You can then list the different client application using:
```
./apic registrations:list -s $apiccloud
```

## Get the access token

The access token depends on the resource that the application needs to access.

If the client application needs to made REST call against a provider organization to publish product for example, the access token for this specific provider organization needs to be requested.

The grant is made using OAuth2 password grant type.   
A resource owner, the user of the organization, is giving access to the application to perform some operations.

Input required:
- api manager end point: apicmgmt
- client id (from above)
- client secret (from above)
- provider organization user that has administration role
- UR realm where the provider organization user is defined

The UR realm can be listed using the command that we already used above with scope **provider**:

```
./apiccli identity-providers:list --scope provider -s $apicmgmt
default-idp-2
common-services
apicusrldap
```

The apicusrldap is a custom UR using a local LDAP. The user Oliver is defined in this UR.

```
curl -v -k -X POST -d '{"username": "<providerOrgUser>", "password": "<providerOrgUsrPwd>", "realm": "provider/<UR>", "client_id": "<yourAppClientId>", "client_secret": "<yourAppClientSecret>", "grant_type": "password"}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' https://$apicmgmt/api/token
```

Example of call:
```
curl -v -k -X POST -d '{"username": "oliver", "password": "oliverpwd", "realm": "provider/apicusrldap", "client_id": "ace-client", "client_secret": "ace-client-pwd", "grant_type": "password"}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' https://$apicmgmt/api/token
```

This request will provide an access token

# REST call

You can now execute REST call against your organization.

Possible REST call are provided at the following [link](https://apic-api.apiconnect.ibmcloud.com/v10/?_ga=2.122066955.1456714585.1596435747-1522549061.1594045542&cm_mc_uid=40840830218615695130641&cm_mc_sid_50200000=48389541596621217127).

For example to list the drafts objects:


```
curl --request GET \
  --url 'https://'$apicmgmt'/api/orgs/REPLACE_ORG/drafts/draft-apis' \
  --header 'accept: application/json'
  -k
  --header 'Authorization: bearer <yourAccessToken>
```
> Nothe that the organisation name can be found using cli
```
apic orgs:list -s $apicmgmt --my
```

# Resources

Additional information can be found here:
[Consume the API Connect platform](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/how-consume-api-connect-platform-cloud-management-and-provider-apis)   
